---
layout: post
title: My White Privilege
image: 
---

# My White Privilege

Given the times we live in, I really wanted to write my personal
thoughts on the current events. I'll also share some personal
experiences, not to justify opinions but to provide some perspective
to balance against others experiences. I also have some conclusions
I've come to based on all the protests and other events.

## What I Know (06/05/2020)

Due to the murder of George Floyd, and the countless other deaths of
black americans. The country has exploded in protest. Millions of
Americans took to the streets to express their feelings. There was
riots and damage to private property. There are peaceful protests
expressing anguish, sadness and helplessness. There are calls for
change, reform and justice for the future.

Cell phone videos keep coming up showing police that don't know how
to perform their job without being violent and aggressive. The
targets of this behavior have ranged from grade school children to 75
year old men. The people in these videos have also been caught doing
a range of things; committing crimes, angrily shouting, peacefully
protesting, and what appears to be just being in the wrong place at
the wrong time. They also were of many races, creeds and religions.

I'm from Washington State, the Washington with equal representation
guaranteed by our constitution. According to the Census of 2010,
citizens who identified as Black or African American was 4.3%. This
is behind Hispanics (12.9%), Asians (9.3%) and mixed race (4.9%). The
state has almost 70% White folk in it, I've lived in Washington all
my life.

I can count the number of times I encountered the police performing
their job on one hand for my entire life. Only one of those instances
I believe the officer had ulterior motives. I believe he wanted to
check out my car, it was a sports car. The rest, I received tickets,
citations or warnings that were completely justified, and I paid the
fines for them. I know this experience is not the norm for everyone
in this country, I pray that it should be.

## What I Feel (06/05/2020)

I'm a complex person, with many feelings. I find it's impossible for
me to empathize with the oppression and systematic violence that is
on display for the world to see right now. I can barely sympathize
with the oppressed who are baring their feelings so publicly at this
time. So all I can do is watch, try to get their point of view and
above all, listen.

Not that I'm devoid of emotion. The strongest emotions I'm feeling are
confusion and frustration. Confusion at the officers both committing,
and at the ones complicit in the acts of violence. Frustration that
some police support each other above all else, including the citizens
they are supposed to protect.

Underneath all of the emotion is a deep well of disappointment in our
country. That we did not learn from the past and fix the problems.
That the leader of this country has been devoid of action or words to
comfort these people. That a large portion of this country chooses
not to see the connection between the past and the events of this
time. That the only course forward seems to involve deploying the
military against the peaceful citizens of this country.

## What I Think (06/05/2020)

We must get police more training to be mentally equipped for their
job. There needs to be a structured approach to manage the
differences in this problem between the states. We need
accountability, justice and peaceful open dialog about these issues
so everyone can get informed.

Some police academies' training is on the order of weeks to complete.
The student is given a gun, a badge, and thrown into some of the
hardest work our society has with little money often no appreciation.
This seems to me like a recipe for the behavior we've been witness to
recently. Training programs that emphasize physical combat techniques
only serve to put officers on the offensive, and they will choose to
use those techniques when unnecessary because it's easy. Training
programs that emphasize de-escalation gives officers more tools to
achieve the ends they desire without physical altercations.

Each state has it's own history with the Black america. Many of the
western states weren't members of the union when we fought the Civil
War. Because of this, each state will have its own unique path to
Truth and Reconciliation. Some states will progress quicker than
others. We have to accept this difference in pace. However, the goal
should remain constant and be defined at the federal level. The
states should be given a level of authority over one another, a peer
pressure of sorts to keep progress moving. 

To restore the trust of a minority race, that society will give equal
justice under the law will take generations to heal. If
the current justice system is to play a role, they need to get
political and be faster at administering justice. Police need to be
held accountable for their actions and inactions as the case maybe.
Police protections under the law need to be more clearly defined, so
citizens have avenues to seek justice.

## Final Thoughts (06/05/2020)

Sadly, I don't think George Floyd will be the last black man to be
murdered by police. I do blame the police officers present for his
death. I do not believe the police officers present were the only
ones to blame for his death. Everyone played a part in his death,
that's what a systemic problem is. 

Though the helplessness I feel at the face of the systemic problem is
real. I don't know what to do about it. I wrote my feelings. I have
some suggestions. No body is going to listen to them, but writing them
helped, I think. I'm going to vote with this in mind.
